- Carrie Nation was like,
alcohol is terrible,
so she smashes this bar up,
but she be wrong, though,
'cause this [bleep]
is delicious.
- They're all in Tennessee!
I'm Andrew God damn Jackson.
Get them giggles out!
Ooh, yeah!
- The 1960s is
a very tumultuous time.
So Marsha P. Johnson smashed
that [bleep] against the mirror
and said,
I got my civil rights!
[patriotic music]
♪ ♪
[rock music]
- Oh, what you're drinking
tastes like poop.
- Mm?
- Oh, apple poop.
- [laughing]
- That's so great.
What is that?
- Apple poop.
- It tastes like apples.
- Yeah.
- Hmm.
I like it.
- That's okay.
Yours is definitely better.
- Yeah.
- You know what's crazy?
I really thought
that was gonna happen.
I was like,
I'm gonna do like, um--
what is that,
the, um...
What's the [bleep] cartoon?
That does it?
The--the "Lady and the Tramp."
- "Alvin and the Chipmunks."
"Lady and the Tramp."
All right.
- [laughing]
- Hello, I'm Amber Ruffin,
and today,
we're gonna talk about
the saloon smasher.
- Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm.
- [hiccups]
Our story starts in Kansas!
Carrie Nation married a man,
but he dies of alcoholism.
So, in 1900,
she prayed for God
to tell her what to do.
Jesus, let me know
what I can do
to stop people from drinking.
God said to her,
Go to Kiowa, Kansas--
not Iowa, Carrie--
and I will stand with you.
And she did.
So, she goes to Kiowa, Kansas.
She brings, like,
bricks and rocks
to smash up bars.
And that's when the real
[bleep] went down.
She was like, I don't want
to strike you, barkeep,
but I will break up
this den of vice.
So, the barkeep was like--
- "This den of vice"?
- "This den of vice."
The barkeep was like, That--
this has never happened,
so I don't know
what you're talking about.
[slurping]
Sorry, that was loud.
You don't know [bleep],
because my husband
[bleep] died of alcohol.
P.S., I super hate alcohol.
So...um,
she smashes this bar up,
and this is the first time
anyone has ever
[bleep] freaked out
like a crazy person.
She smashes up
all that [bleep].
She's smashing up, um,
all of his bottles of alcohol.
Well, it's [bleep] illegal
for him to have it.
And smashing his fun.
[laughing]
She smashed everything.
She comes out of his bar.
There's a huge crowd,
because people have never
seen anything like this.
So everyone's out there going,
Yay!
We like that that happened!
And so she gains
a lot of supporters.
At this point, it's illegal
to sell liquor in Kansas.
[chuckles]
Those assholes.
- [laughs]
- So, Carrie goes
to three other bars,
smashes their [bleep] up too.
And then, finally,
the town marshal is like,
Please stop.
I'm going to have to
arrest you.
She goes--she gets arrested.
She is arrested
for seven weeks.
So, she gets out of jail.
Um, she goes to two other
cities in Kansas.
When she gets to Wichita,
she says,
Men of Wichita:
this is the right arm of God,
and I am destined to destroy
every saloon in your city.
She goes into
the Carey hotel bar.
She smashes up
every bottle of alcohol.
She smashes up every mirror,
every window.
She smashes it good,
because Jesus told her to smash,
and when Jesus say, "Smash,"
she smash.
She does $3,000
worth of damage.
Now, during
one of her smashies--
- Oh, I like the smashies.
- [laughing]
I wanted her to call it
"Smashies."
I don't know that she did.
- [laughing]
- A fan of hers
gives her a hatchet.
Carrie is like,
Enough with the bricks.
Let's get to the real [bleep],
a hatchet.
So she goes into this bar,
gets into the bar,
and smashes up
every bottle of alcohol.
Every...
[laughing]
Ev-er-y. Ev-er-y.
So--
- Everly Cleary?
- Every.
Is what you should say.
But I'm saying "Ev-er-y."
That's weird.
So, she smashes up everything
in the bar.
And she leaves the bar.
And she's out talking to
this huge mass of people,
and it's like,
Alcohol is terrible.
Don't drink.
Everyone is like, Whoo,
we're eating this [bleep] up.
So, she's famous.
Now she is famous.
So, she goes around
the whole United States
of America.
She tours.
She smashes up bars.
And she never stops,
and a lot of people
try to write her off
as a crazy lady
because she's the only
person saying,
Hey, maybe alcohol is terrible.
But she be wrong, though, 'cause
this [bleep] is delicious.
[slurping]
So, she died in 1911.
And prohibition
was passed in 1919,
due in large part to her
and her efforts.
But also, women's rights.
That was Carrie A.
[bleep] Nation.
Because she always advocated
for women's right to vote.
Thank you for [bleep]
letting me [bleep] vote.
Lady.
- Amen.
- Glad you smashed up
these bars.
- Yeah.
- Bet it was cool.
I sure like voting.
[slurping]
- [bubbling] I've always
been able to vote.
- [laughing]
I'm black--I haven't been able
to vote twice.
[laughter]
In the name of Carrie A. Nation.
- Let's smash this [bleep].
- Let's smash.
- One, two, three.
[glass shattering]
- To you, Carrie A. Nation.
- The original Smash Mouth.
- All right, so we'll start--
you look into Tommy's camera.
- Shut up right now.
Shut up right now.
- Do it your own way.
- Shut up.
Shut the [bleep] up.
- Know that I mean--
- Shut the [bleep] up.
Hello.
I'm Kyle Kinane.
And today, we're gonna talk
about Andrew Jackson.
The brawler.
Start early 1800s.
America.
Andrew Jackson's army,
they're in Tennessee.
He's a--
an accomplished duelist.
Jackson's like,
I've been a soldier
and a brawler my whole time.
I'm a badass dude.
So, there's a couple brothers
named Thomas and Jesse Benton.
They're officers
in Andrew Jackson's army.
These two brothers, they're
a couple rabble rousers.
Couple troublemakers.
Thomas, he's power-hungry.
He wants to make it.
He just wants--
he--he wants--
he wants--
he wants it.
Becomes Jackson's
right-hand man.
Jackson likes him so much,
he sends him to D.C.
Jesse Benton, still in--
still in Tennessee.
Part of the regiment, gets into
an argument with another--
another fellow
under Jackson's regime
by the name of,
uh, William Carroll.
Some old-timey argument.
Jabber, jabber, jabber?
Jabber, jabber, jabber.
No end result.
Well, we're not gonna
settle this with words.
All right, let's meet in a
field and shoot at each other.
Duel!
- [laughing]
- So...
It's--it's very inefficient.
It's very inefficient.
So, William Carroll
knew he was experienced.
He's like, So listen, Andy,
do me a solid--
I'm working under you.
Can you be on
the ones and twos for me?
Andrew Dacks--
Andrew Jackson says,
You know what?
I'm your second.
Let's go at it.
[claps]
Duel!
So, the duel goes down.
Ten-pace duel.
Turn, spin, shoot.
Poom!
Carroll gets
his thumb blown off,
still gets one off,
shoots Jesse Benton
in his ass.
Hilarious shot.
[laughter]
People are out there going
nut--they're--
they're like, Well, did you
hear about the duel?
Jesse Benton's got
an extra asshole.
[laughing]
Ah, all right.
All right.
Get them giggles out.
Ooh, yeah!
It--the word gets
all the way back
to Thomas Benton,
Jesse's Brother's--
you know, he's over there, D.C.
He's hearing about this.
He's like, What?
Where I left, now they're
laughing about my name?
And it's because Jackson
supported this other guy?
Now, Thomas Benton, Andrew
Jackson's aide, is furious.
He's like, This is
Andrew Jackson's fault
for even allowing this stupid
duel to happen.
So, he's not gonna
stand for it.
He heads back to Tennessee
to restore honor
to his family name.
Andrew Jackson,
back in Tennessee,
he's hearing--he's hearing
all this [bleep] talk.
He's upset about all this.
I'm Andrew God damn Jackson.
I'm gonna whip sense
into these Benton brothers.
Literally, he walks around
for six weeks
with a bullwhip on his--
on his belt loop.
Just some real
passo-aggro [bleep].
[imitates whip cracking]
You know how whips sound.
Put in a sound effect.
Post-production.
Silent take.
Post-produc.
[silent]
- [laughing]
Okay, so,
do you remember where you are?
- They're all in Tennessee!
Nashville!
September 4th, 1813.
The Bentons are holed up
at a hotel.
Other end of the strip,
Andrew Jackson--
[claps]
and his good buddy John Coffee.
They're hanging.
They all know
why they're there.
They got beef.
Old-timey beef.
1800s beef.
Andrew Jackson's like,
Hey, John,
your name is indicative
of morning activity,
John Coffee.
Let's go take a morning stroll.
Let's go get my mail
from the post office.
[clears throat] So they take
a little stroll around town--
oh, did it happen to take a
cir--circuit--cir, uh,
roundabout way
in front of the hotel?
Benton brothers posted up,
like,
Yeah, we expected this much.
Andrew Jackson,
he looks at 'em.
Then just says,
"Defend yourselves,
you damned rascals."
[belches]
That was the final moment.
Thomas Benton
goes for the sidearm.
Andrew Jackson
already has it pulled.
So Thomas, he goes
back in the hotel.
Meanwhile, Jesse's
coming around sneakily.
There's Andrew Jackson.
What he doesn't see is Jesse's
coming around a corner.
Fires off at Jackson--
bang, bang!
Jackson, he gets shot.
Twice.
[dramatic music]
In the wing.
Jackson goes to throw one
off at Thomas.
The gun misfires.
[imitates farting]
And it just farts out
his musket.
Burns a hole in his jacket.
Coffee runs in.
Coffee fires a few shots
at Thomas.
Oh, I'm being shot at?
What's my safest bet?
Let me just roll
down these stairs.
♪ ♪
He did that
to himself voluntarily.
And...
[sets down drink]
♪ ♪
Now, we got another
Andrew Jackson supporter
that just--he jumps in
out of nowhere
Stokely Hayes,
he comes in with a sword.
That's a rule, you don't bring
a knife to a gun fight.
This guy, he goes
to stab Jesse.
The sword breaks
'cause it hits a button.
Twing!
What about a knife?
I'll just stab this guy.
Stokely Hayes tackles Jesse,
and this whole showdown,
it's a catastrophe.
End result?
Andrew Jackson was a president
who had, at some point,
shot at several people
in a non-battlefield situation.
- [laughing]
Keep going. I'll--
- Oh, just keep going?
Oh, tha--I appreciate
your permission.
Where was I?
Oh, crushing that story?
That's where I was?
Crushing that story?
So, it's like 20 years
down the road.
He writes a letter
to Thomas Benton.
Hey, last time I saw you,
I think you left these.
Puts the bullets in a letter,
mails 'em off.
You've had 'em long enough.
You keep 'em.
Mails 'em back.
That's...
that's how duels are.
I want to eat.
- Mm-hmm?
- Stay tuned for more
"Drunk History."
- That's nice.
That's really nice.
- [bleep] off.
- Okay.
Sorry.
- To Marsha.
- Yeah.
I'm gonna paint my--
oh, you don't have to chug that.
[laughing]
Did you think I was chugging?
- Yeah, I did.
- Oh, sorry.
- Just kidding.
I'm honestly so happy right now.
- Me too.
- Hi!
Just kidding.
- [laughing]
- Hello, I'm Crissle West,
and today,
we're going to discuss
Marsha P. Johnson.
So, the story begins
in the middle of
New York City,
in the Village,
on Christopher Street,
and back then, you know,
New York had a growing
LGBT population.
So, basically,
the non-straight population
had a bunch of bars and stuff
in Greenwich Village,
and so,
you know, all the queer kids
would go down
to the Village and be like,
We're here to be ourselves.
But these people didn't have
a sense of community.
Like, this was a point in time
where you came out
as being trans,
and you were just
kicked out of the house.
Like, and nobody gave
a [bleep] about you.
And that was kind of
what happened to Marsha.
Like, she was a queer person
growing up in Jersey.
Okay, so she would
get on the train in Jersey,
um, dressed as Malcolm,
which was her birth name,
and then on the way over
from Jersey to New York,
transform into Marsha
with, you know,
beer cans and pop cans,
uh, for rollers.
Just like,
I'm Marsha P. Johnson, bitch,
and if you don't like it,
you go to hell.
Like, here I am, ho.
What you gonna do?
- Mm-hmm.
- [laughing]
- You have the best
laugh in the world.
I love it.
- Oh, God!
Whoo! Anyways.
- Yeah.
- The 1960s is a very
tumultuous time
for the United States
of America.
Because every minority group
imaginable
is tired of the status quo.
Okay, so there was a group
of officers
in New York City
called the Public Moral Squad,
which is ridiculous,
because when in the [bleep]
have morals been a part
of this God damn city?
Like, the city's trash,
and the Public Moral Squad
took their orders
directly from the mayor.
The mayor was like,
I want you to go shut down
the [bleep] gay bars.
I'm sick of them mother[bleep]
putting they [bleep]
on people's asses,
and it's time to be over.
So, the night at Stonewall,
June 18th--
or 28th.
June 28th.
I know it was one of the 8s.
[laughter]
Oh, God.
So, that night,
Charles Smythe and
Seymour Pine,
they walked into the
Stonewall Inn, and they said,
Hey, bitch!
[clapping]
We here!
And [bleep] is under
mother[bleep] arrest.
Sit your gay ass down,
and wait for us to
verify your mother[bleep] I.D.
with your [bleep]
mother[bleep] genitals!
[crashing]
[laughing]
Sorry, tree.
[laughter]
And the trans girls was like,
Oh, no, bitch.
We didn't ask for this.
And some people were, like,
freaking out,
and trying to, like,
go for the exits,
but the police had barricaded
the whole thing.
And Marsha says,
You know what?
Today is not
the mother[bleep] day!
Today is the day that I say no
to this bull[bleep].
Like, y'all are not going
to continue
to run us, to dictate
what our lives should be like.
T-t-to dish--to dic-trate
what our lives
are supposed to be like.
You're not in charge
any [bleep] more.
We're here, and as long as we
have to pay taxes,
you're gonna have to listen to
what the [bleep]
that we have to shay--
we have to sh--
to shay.
To say!
So Marsha P. Johnson
stood the [bleep] up,
and she picked up
a shot glass,
and she smashed that [bleep]
against the mirror and said,
I got my civil rights!
She had had enough that
mother[bleep] day.
So, during the Stonewall riots,
that first night,
all these members
of the gay community
started gathering outside.
Marsha, she's thinking, like,
Oh, my God.
There's so many of, like, us.
There's 500 of this--
of us.
By the time backup showed up
to Christopher Street,
it was way too late.
Some of the rioters
threw rocks and [bleep].
Others found bricks and
[bleep], and they're like,
We're gonna [bleep] it up
by any means necessary.
- [laughing]
Oh, God.
- It was good.
- I told myself I was not
gonna get drunk this time.
I don't know how I thought
that was gonna work.
[laughter]
Okay.
So, the people
at Stonewall that night
realized there's
a community of us.
It's not just 20 of us
on [bleep] Wednesday night
when it's half off--
there's a whole group of us
who are here
in this gay [bleep]
and you're not
going to erase us
from the mother[bleep]
conversation no more.
So, Marsha says, Ultimately,
humanness wins.
- Yes.
- Ultimately, people win.
- Yeah.
- That night,
and then the next one,
constitute the Stonewall Riots,
and that is what got the whole
gay rights movement in America
started off.
- Like, that gives me chills.
- It's the shot glass heard
around the world.
A few weeks later,
Marsha and her friend Sylvia
formed the Street Transvestite
Act--Reaction Evolution.
Which is not words we--
we would use to gay--
today, obviously,
it would be more like,
Street Trans-vendor.
Transgender, I mean.
Not trans-vinegar, yeah, it's
not like that [bleep].
Basically, Marsha and Sylvia
were out there in the '60s
and '70s just trying to get
these trans kids
a place to live.
She really was a badass.
- Yeah.
- And so brave--like, I would
not have been that brave.
In the '60s and '70s?
I mean, it was bad enough
being black.
- Right.
- But add in a queer identity,
and then a--a queer gender
identity too?
It was a lot.
And she still faced it.
But truly?
Black people deserve to be
on all this [bleep].
- Mm-hmm.
- Black people and Sacagawea.
Who needs to get off
the God damn coin
and onto some [bleep]
paper money.
[laughter]
Because this our [bleep].
- Yeah.
Bow down.
[patriotic music]
♪ ♪
- Well, no, don't caress me.
- That's a Sublime song.
- Don't test me
on Sublime songs.
The song is called,
"Please Caress Me More."
- Okay.
Sure.
- That's--I don't want
to live it out.
- [laughing]
- Don't live out--
I don't want to live out Sublime
songs on my kitchen floor.